docs/README.md, before:

# Documentation

This project demonstrates a basic real-time human pose estimation system. The
full assignment and requirements are listed in
[tech-challenge.txt](tech-challenge.txt).

Placeholder for project docs.

The pose detector outputs 17 landmarks in the following order:
``nose``, ``left_eye``, ``right_eye``, ``left_ear``, ``right_ear``,
``left_shoulder``, ``right_shoulder``, ``left_elbow``, ``right_elbow``,
``left_wrist``, ``right_wrist``, ``left_hip``, ``right_hip``, ``left_knee``,
``right_knee``, ``left_ankle`` and ``right_ankle``.

## Backend analytics

The backend exposes a WebSocket endpoint at `/pose`. It captures webcam frames
with MediaPipe and streams pose metrics as JSON. The metrics are calculated in
`backend/analytics.py`:

```python
from backend.analytics import extract_pose_metrics

# landmarks is a dict like {'left_hip': {'x': 0.5, 'y': 0.5}, ...}
metrics = extract_pose_metrics(landmarks)
```

The returned dictionary contains ``knee_angle`` in degrees,
``balance`` between the hips and ``pose_class`` which is either
``"standing"`` or ``"sitting"`` when the angles can be computed.

Start the backend server with:

```bash
python -m backend.server
```

## Frontend metrics panel

The React frontend displays these metrics below the video feed. When
connected you might see text like:

```text
Balance: 0.85 Pose: standing Knee Angle: 160.00°
```

Commit message:

Use streaming mode in PoseDetector

docs/README.md, after:

# Documentation

This project demonstrates a basic real-time human pose estimation system. The
full assignment and requirements are listed in
[tech-challenge.txt](tech-challenge.txt).

Placeholder for project docs.

The pose detector outputs 17 landmarks in the following order:
``nose``, ``left_eye``, ``right_eye``, ``left_ear``, ``right_ear``,
``left_shoulder``, ``right_shoulder``, ``left_elbow``, ``right_elbow``,
``left_wrist``, ``right_wrist``, ``left_hip``, ``right_hip``, ``left_knee``,
``right_knee``, ``left_ankle`` and ``right_ankle``.

## Backend analytics

The backend exposes a WebSocket endpoint at `/pose`. It captures webcam frames
with MediaPipe and streams pose metrics as JSON. The metrics are calculated in
`backend/analytics.py`:

```python
from backend.analytics import extract_pose_metrics

# landmarks is a dict like {'left_hip': {'x': 0.5, 'y': 0.5}, ...}
metrics = extract_pose_metrics(landmarks)
```

The returned dictionary contains ``knee_angle`` in degrees,
``balance`` between the hips and ``pose_class`` which is either
``"standing"`` or ``"sitting"`` when the angles can be computed.

Start the backend server with:

```bash
python -m backend.server
```

The pose detector uses `static_image_mode=False` for real-time
performance with continuous frames.

## Frontend metrics panel

The React frontend displays these metrics below the video feed. When
connected you might see text like:

```text
Balance: 0.85 Pose: standing Knee Angle: 160.00°
```
